[
    {
        "content": "<p>Do we still need the CI step \"Detect changes to header SHAs / Add annotations (pull_request)\"? (I'm not sure if mathlib3 will gain further commits, from some <code>not-too-late</code> PRs - or if the infrastructure would be useful for this case.)<br>\nWould a PR removing it be welcome?</p>",
        "id": 429074620,
        "sender_full_name": "Michael Rothgang",
        "timestamp": 1711194858
    },
    {
        "content": "<p>Let me regenerate <a href=\"https://leanprover-community.github.io/mathlib-port-status/out-of-sync\">#outofsync</a> quickly; I think we are 2 PRs away from it being done :)</p>",
        "id": 429075248,
        "sender_full_name": "Eric Wieser",
        "timestamp": 1711195546
    }
]